# BernaS_DuenasJ
- **Starting the Game**: Once you start playing in the editor, you start at the beginning of whatever level you were in inside the editor. Press “5” to start a new game, which will load the first level and reset your score and difficulty. To stop the game, you are able to press ”6”.
- **Playing the game**: You control the ball with WASD/ARROWS and the mouse. The mouse is able to rotate the camera around the ball and zoom in and out with the SCROLL WHEEL. The ball will move in the direction the camera is looking (W/UP is always towards where the camera is pointing). SPACEBAR is jump, which you can only do once, until you hit a surface again. Pressing “0” or RIGHT MOUSE BUTTON will stop the ball’s rotation and lock it in place, if done while in air, the ball will slowly float downwards. On most levels, you are able to toggle “Hamster Mode” by pressing “H”. This will put the camera inside the ball, as if you are a hamster inside a ball. Pressing “J” will toggle “Top-Down Mode”. This will put the camera directly above the ball. This mode is forced on level_3, and will be automatically turned off when you reach level 4.
- **Objective**: The objective of the game is displayed at the beginning of each level, which is “Get to the exit”. The exit is located on the other side of the map and must be reached in order to progress to the next level. There are enemies that are present on certain levels that will hurt the player if they are touched. The enemy movement and damage is affected by the current difficulty. Collectable stars can be found on some levels. The amount you collect will be saved and displayed along with your score in between levels. If your health reaches 0 or you fall into the void present underneath the maps, you will have to restart the level, and a life will be deducted from your total. You start every new level with 3 lives. If your lives get to 0, the game is ended and you are presented with a screen where you can either restart the game from the beginning or exit the game, taking you back to the editor. On this screen you are also able to reset the high score, which will delete your current score and the high score. 
- **Difficulty**: There are 3 difficulties possible while playing(0,1,or 2). When starting a new game, the difficulty is set to 1. If you end a level with 3 lives remaining, the difficulty is raised. If you end a level with only 1 life remaining, the difficulty is lowered. If during the level, you are reduced to 1 life, the difficulty is lowered, making it easier to finish the level. 
- **Scoring**: When you reach the end of a level, the score gained is determined by the difficulty you finished it on. If you manage to get a higher score than the present high score, your score will replace the high score and transfer to future games.
